README.md, before:

# susentry
Linux Facial Recognition for using Su/Sudo, written in Python 3 using dlib and OpenCV 3

# Requirements
- Python 3+
- dlib with Python 3 bindings
- OpenCV
- Numpy
- YAML

##### Installing dlib: 
https://www.pyimagesearch.com/2018/01/22/install-dlib-easy-complete-guide/ 

##### Installing OpenCV
https://www.learnopencv.com/install-opencv3-on-ubuntu/$

##### YAML, Numpy
```
$ sudo apt-get install python3-yaml
$ sudo apt-get install python3-numpy
```

##### Folder Structure
```
|-susentry(dir)      
| |_images(dir)_
| |_unknownimages(dir)_
|_makeroot.sh_
|_susentry.py_
|_config.yml_
|_dlib_face_recognition_resnet_model_v1.dat_
|_shape_predictor_5_face_landmarks.dat_
|_LICENSE
```
### Editing the Config File

The config file is in YAML and comes without any of the values filled in.
You can set Verbose to True or False (No quotes - do not pass True or False as a string, only the folder paths are strings) 
If verbose is True you can see the facial recognition in action, if set to False, everything happens quietly in the background.
Change the working directory to where you store the files. Example: "/home/user/susentry" (Include the quotations)
The rest of the values are the paths to the files including in the repository.

### First run

Run susentry.py once without any arguments (python3 susentry.py). It will take an image of your face and save it to the 'known' images folder. This is the picture the sudoers face will be compared against. (If you run susentry.py with the -l arg it does a facial comparison) 

It is important that you do this step before proceeding below.

### Editing /etc/pam.d/common-auth 

We will be using Linux-PAM (Pluggable Authentication Modules) to call our script when a user uses su/sudo (To be more specific, anytime a password is required).
For those unfamiliar with PAM, you can learn more about PAM here:
http://www.linux-pam.org/Linux-PAM-html/

#### *** WARNING *** The file we are going to be editing is /etc/pam.d/common-auth Modifying these files is not to be taken lightly and if you do something incorrectly you may have to log in to single user mode and gain root priveleges to revert the common-auth file back.
Lets get started!

First, we want to place a bash script in our /usr/local/bin/ folder. This script is named 'susentry' and is located in this repository.
Find this line:
```
python3 /path/to/susentry.py -l
```
And change `/path/to/susentry.py` to the full path of your susentry.py python file.
Then, place this file in /usr/local/bin folder.

Next, we modify the PAM common-auth file:

```
gksudo gedit /etc/pam.d/common-auth
```
Find this line in your common-auth file:
```
auth [success=1 default=ignore]     pam_unix.so nullok_secure
```

This line calls the module that asks the user for a password. If the module returns success (password correct), it skips the next line (success=1 means skip one line). 
So, if you want to use su/sudo, but instead of entering your password you use facial comparison, put this above the line above:
```
auth [success=2 default=ignore]     pam_exec.so debug log=/path/to/pamlogs.txt /usr/local/bin/susentry
```
Make sure you change `/path/to/pamlogs.txt` to where you want the PAM output to be saved. (This ouput is error output and stdin output from susentry and susentry.py - if you set Verbose to True that printed information will show up here)

## Try it out!

Open a new terminal and type:
`sudo test`


### This README is incomplete. This line will be removed when it is finished.

Commit message:

added note about bright lights in background

README.md, after:

# susentry
Linux Facial Recognition for using Su/Sudo, written in Python 3 using dlib and OpenCV 3

# Requirements
- Python 3+
- dlib with Python 3 bindings
- OpenCV
- Numpy
- YAML

##### Installing dlib: 
https://www.pyimagesearch.com/2018/01/22/install-dlib-easy-complete-guide/ 

##### Installing OpenCV
https://www.learnopencv.com/install-opencv3-on-ubuntu/$

##### YAML, Numpy
```
$ sudo apt-get install python3-yaml
$ sudo apt-get install python3-numpy
```

##### Folder Structure
```
|-susentry(dir)      
| |_images(dir)_
| |_unknownimages(dir)_
|_makeroot.sh_
|_susentry.py_
|_config.yml_
|_dlib_face_recognition_resnet_model_v1.dat_
|_shape_predictor_5_face_landmarks.dat_
|_LICENSE
```
### Editing the Config File

The config file is in YAML and comes without any of the values filled in.
You can set Verbose to True or False (No quotes - do not pass True or False as a string, only the folder paths are strings) 
If verbose is True you can see the facial recognition in action, if set to False, everything happens quietly in the background.
Change the working directory to where you store the files. Example: "/home/user/susentry" (Include the quotations)
The rest of the values are the paths to the files including in the repository.

### First run

Run susentry.py once without any arguments (python3 susentry.py). It will take an image of your face and save it to the 'known' images folder. This is the picture the sudoers face will be compared against. (If you run susentry.py with the -l arg it does a facial comparison) 

It is important that you do this step before proceeding below.

### Editing /etc/pam.d/common-auth 

We will be using Linux-PAM (Pluggable Authentication Modules) to call our script when a user uses su/sudo (To be more specific, anytime a password is required).
For those unfamiliar with PAM, you can learn more about PAM here:
http://www.linux-pam.org/Linux-PAM-html/

#### *** WARNING *** The file we are going to be editing is /etc/pam.d/common-auth Modifying these files is not to be taken lightly and if you do something incorrectly you may have to log in to single user mode and gain root priveleges to revert the common-auth file back.
Lets get started!

First, we want to place a bash script in our /usr/local/bin/ folder. This script is named 'susentry' and is located in this repository.
Find this line:
```
python3 /path/to/susentry.py -l
```
And change `/path/to/susentry.py` to the full path of your susentry.py python file.
Then, place this file in /usr/local/bin folder.

Next, we modify the PAM common-auth file:

```
gksudo gedit /etc/pam.d/common-auth
```
Find this line in your common-auth file:
```
auth [success=1 default=ignore]     pam_unix.so nullok_secure
```

This line calls the module that asks the user for a password. If the module returns success (password correct), it skips the next line (success=1 means skip one line). 
So, if you want to use su/sudo, but instead of entering your password you use facial comparison, put this above the line above:
```
auth [success=2 default=ignore]     pam_exec.so debug log=/path/to/pamlogs.txt /usr/local/bin/susentry
```
Make sure you change `/path/to/pamlogs.txt` to where you want the PAM output to be saved. (This ouput is error output and stdin output from susentry and susentry.py - if you set Verbose to True that printed information will show up here)

## Try it out!

Open a new terminal and type:
`sudo test`



## Please note:
### - Bright lights in the background, or blurry images will usually fail facial comparison.


### This README is incomplete. This line will be removed when it is finished.
